# c-pratice

The compilation process involves translating the high-level source code written in a programming language (such as C) into low-level machine code that can be executed by a computer. The compilation process consists of several stages:

Preprocessing: This stage involves processing the source code using a preprocessor (such as the C preprocessor) to perform operations such as macro expansion and file inclusion.

Parsing: In this stage, the preprocessed source code is parsed to generate an abstract syntax tree (AST), which is a hierarchical representation of the source code's structure.

Semantic analysis: In this stage, the AST is checked for semantic errors such as type mismatches, undefined variables, and function calls with incorrect parameters.

Code generation: Once the AST has been validated, code is generated in the target programming language (such as assembly or machine code) that can be executed by a computer.

Optimization: In this stage, the generated code is optimized to improve its performance. This involves analyzing the code to identify and eliminate redundancies and inefficiencies.

Linking: In this final stage, the object code generated by the previous stages is linked together with any necessary library code to create an executable program.

Here are some common commands used in the compilation process with GCC:

gcc -E source.c: Preprocesses the source code and outputs the result to standard output.

gcc -S source.c: Compiles the source code to assembly code and outputs the result to a file named source.s.

gcc -c source.c: Compiles the source code to object code and outputs the result to a file named source.o.

gcc source.c: Compiles the source code to an executable file named a.out.

gcc -o hello hello.o: Linking the code

gcc source.c -o executable: Compiles the source code to an executable file named executable.


```
-c is for compiling and -o is for linking
```

## commands

preprocessor file generate command : gcc -E file.c 
preprocessor file generate command : gcc -E file.c > file-name.i